>>> WE'RE GETTING NEWS IN WHEN
WE TALK ABOUT THE 320 AIRSTRIKES
ISRAEL LAUNCHED OVERNIGHT IN
GAZAS,  HOW THEY ARE DEALING WIH
PRECISION TARGETING.
AND NEWS THAT THERE IS A NEW
WEAPON THAT THEY ARE DEPLOYING.
M
MADE GELLEN COMMANDO UNIT.
AND I WANT TO GET TO NIC
ROBERTSON.
THIS IS NEW INFORMATION IN ABOUT
WHAT EXACTLY ISRAEL IS DOING.
WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED ABOUT THIS
WEAPON AND THIS UNIT THAT WE
UNDERSTAND CALLED THE MAGELLAN
COMMANDO UNIT?
>> Reporter: YES, A SPECIALIST
UNIT USING A SPECIAL NEW WEAPON.
THIS IS A WEAPON THAT ADVANCES
TECHNOLOGICALLY THE OLD
FASHIONED MORE TAB.
OLD FASHIONED IS SORT OF A CLOSE
INFANTRY TOOL THAT YOU USE IT
CLOSE TO THE FRONTLINE OR A
LITTLE FURTHER BACK, IT FIRES
REALLY HIGH IN THE AIR, GOES
RIGHT UP AND COMES RIGHT DOWN.
TYPICALLY IN THE PAST YOU NEED A
FORWARD SPOTTER WHO CAN SEE
WHERE IT IS HITTING AND IT TAKES
MAYBE THREE ROUNDS FOR A GOOD
MORTAR TEAM TO PUT A ROUND
PRECISELY ON THE TARGET.
THIS NEW SYSTEM APPARENTLY DOES
AWAY WITH THAT, IT IS COMPUTER
CONTROLLED, YOU DIAL IN THE
DESIGNATED LOCATION OF THE
TARGET A THIS MORTAR FIRES AND
HITS THAT TARGET WITH PINPOINT
ACCURATE.
THAT IS WHAT THE IDF IS SAYING.
SO WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
IT MEANS WHEN THEY SEE A SMALL
JIHAD OR HAMAS UNIT OUT IN THE
FIELD WITH ANTI-TANK UNIT, THEY
CAN PINPOINT THEM PRECISELY AND
HIT THEM QUICKLY AND READILY.
WE WEREN'T AWARE OF THIS BEING
OPERATIONAL IN THE REGION, WE'RE
USED TO HEARING THE I EXPLOSION
AND ARTILLERY, BUT THIS HAD A
WHOLE NEW SOUND.
AND WHEN WE HEARD THIS ONE, WE
WENT FOR COVER BECAUSE IT MADE A
HUGE WHOOSH AND WE DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT IT WAS.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT THE
IDF REALLY HOPES CAN HELP IT
TARGET PRECISELY SMALL GROUPS.
>> AND IT IS INTERESTING THAT
YOU ARE SAYING THAT YOU CAN BY
AUDIO HEAR THAT IT IS VERY
DIFFERENT, THAT YOUR PHYSICAL
REACTION IS DIFFERENT.
VERY SIGNIFICANT.
AND OF COURSE IN UKRAINE YOU
HEAR ARTILLERY AND ARE USED TO
ALL OF THE SOUNDS.
JUST SOME CONTEXT HERE THOUGH.
320 STRIKES OVERNIGHT.
THEY SAID 205 I THINK THE DAY
BEFORE YESTERDAY.
SO I'M JUST PUTTING IT OUT HERE
TO MAKE A POINT THAT IS MORE
THAN 500 STRIKES IN ANY GIVEN 48
HOUR PERIOD.
AND EVEN THE PALESTINIAN HEALTH
AUTHORITY IS NOT SAYING THAT
THERE IS ANYWHERE NEAR THAT
NUMBER OF DEATHS A DAY.
SO I'M MAKING THIS POINT TO MAKE
USE OF THE WORLD PRECISION.
THAT THEY ARE INCREDIBLY PRECISE
AND IT SEEMS LIKE IN SOME CASES
THEY ARE ACTUALLY TARGETED AT
OPERATION COMMAND CENTERS NOT
NECESSARILY INDIVIDUAL HAMAS
OPERATIVES, RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, ERIN.
WITH US NOW, EDITOR AND FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COLUMNIST AT BLOOMBERG
BOBBY GOSHE AND ALSO CO-AUTHOR
OF A NEW BOOK COMING OUT, GENIUS
OF ISRAEL.
THAT YOU THINK BOTH FOR BEING
HERE.
-- THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING
I WANT TO BEGIN WITH WHAT WE
HEARD FROM THE KING OF JORDAN.
DAN, THIS IS A U.S. ALLY, BUT HE
WAS EMPHATIC CHOOSING HIS WORDS
CAREFULLY AND SENDING A MESSAGE.
HERE HE WAS.
>> THE RELENTLESS BOMBING
CAMPAIGN UNDER WAY AS WE SPEAK
IS CRUEL AND UNCONSCIONABLE ON
EVERY LEVEL.
IT IS COLLECTIVE PUNISHMENT OF A
BESIEGED AND HELPLESS PEOPLE.
IT IS A FLAGRANT VIOLATIONS OF
INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN LAW.
IT IS A WAR CRIME.
>> YOU HEAR THAT COUPLED WITH
OUR REPORTING THAT THE U.S. IS
URGING ISRAEL TO PAUSE, TO WAIT,
TO TRY TO ALLOW MORE TIME TO GET
HOSTAGES OUT.
AND THE IDF SAYS THERE IS NO
CEASEFIRE, THERE IS NO PAUSE.
WHAT IS YOUR READ?
>> TWO THINGS GOING ON.
WHEN YOU HEAR LEADERS IN THE
REGION MAKING THOSE STATEMENTS,
I THINK THEY ARE CONCERNED
PARTICULARLY KING OF JORDAN WHO
IS WORRIED ABOUT REAL VOLATILITY
IN HIS OWN POPULATION IN JORDAN
AND WHETHER OR NOT THE TENSIONS
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND XWGAZA, ISRA
AND HAMAS, COULD HAVE CASCADING
EFFECTS FOR HIS OWN SECURITY AND
HIS OWN ARAB WORLD
ARE QUITELY SAYING I HOPE ISRAEL
WIPES OUT HAMAS ONCE AND FOR
ALL.
SO WHAT THEY SAY PRIVATELY AND
PUBLICLY ARE TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS.
>> THE QUESTION IS THE COST.
HIS WIFE WHO IS PALESTINIAN
REALLY CONCERNED AS WELL ABOUT
THE TREATMENT OF THE PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE.
>> I THINK THERE ARE LEGITIMATE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PALESTINIAN
CIVILIANS.
THE QUESTION IS WHO IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THAT, WHO CAN
ULTIMATELY CONTROL THEIR FATE.
IS IT ISRAEL OR HAMAS.
THE U.S. ADMINISTRATION'S AGENDA
IS DIFFERENT.
I BELIEVE THAT THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION HAS MINOR MILD
HOPE THAT THEY WILL GET OUT SOME
OF THE HOSTAGES PARTICULARLY
HOSTAGES WITH AMERICAN
PASSPORTS.
WE SAW TWO RELEASED LAST WEEK.
I THINK HAMAS IS PLAYING A VERY
CLEVER GAME WHERE THEY ARE
STARTING TO DRIBBLE OUT
HOSTAGES.
I THINK YOU WILL SEE MORE OF
THAT.
SO THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION IS
SAYING IF WE'RE GOING TO GET OUT
A COUPLE HOUSE DAMAGES HERE AND
THERE, THERE IS A FAMILY I'M
MEETING WITH HERE TODAY WHO HAS
A SON AS A HOSTAGE.
SO A LOT OF THE PARENTS ARE
ORGANIZED AS WELL THEY SHOULD BE
AND THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION IS
SAYING GIVE IT TIME.
THIS PUTS ISRAEL IN A REAL
CONUNDRUM BECAUSE THEY CAN WAIT
AND THEY CAN WAIT AND THEY CAN
WAIT A.
AT SOME POINT THE CONCERN THAT
WILL UNDERMINE THEIR OWN FUTURE
OPERATION AND IF ALL THAT IS
RELEASED AT THE END OF IT ARE
HOSTAGES EXCEPT FOR THOSE THAT
ARE JUST ISRAELI PASSPORTS.
>> DAN GETS AT THE COMPLEXITY
HERE WHICH I'VE SPENT A LOT OF
TIME TRYING TO GET MY HEAD
AROUND IT.
WHILE I'M CERTAINLY NOT A
FOREIGN POLICY EXPERT, I'VE
COVERED THIS STUFF LONG ENOUGH
TO KNOW THIS IS VERY DIFFERENT
GIVEN HOW MANY CROSS CUTTING
VARIABLES.
YOU TALK ABOUT LEADERS IN THE
REGION WHO SAY SOMETHING
PUBLICLY FOR EFFECT AND SAYING
U.S. WANTS HOSTAGES OUT BUT ALSO
MOVING IN SIGNIFICANT FORCE
POSTURE INCREASES FOR DETERRENCE
PURPOSES, ALSO POTENTIALLY
GETTING DRAWN INTO SOMETHING
BIGGER.
WHILE ALSO TRYING TO HUG ISRAEL
AND ITS LEADERS WHO THEY KNOW
WILL EVENTUALLY LAUNCH A GROUND
INCURSION.
HOW DOES THIS ALL MOVE FORWARD
IN THE WEEKS AHEAD GIVEN WHAT
DAN IS TALKING ABOUT, THE
HOSTAGES WHERE ISRAELIS ARE,
GROUND INCURSION, ALL THESE
ELEMENTS?
>> IT WILL MOVE FORWARD VERY,
VERY SLOWLY UNTIL THE GROUND
OFFENSIVE TAKES PLACE AND THEN
IT MOVES VERY QUICKLY.
SO THAT IS THE NATURE OF THESE
THINGS.
THINGS HAPPEN SLOWLY UNTIL THEY
SUDDENLY HAPPEN VERY, VERY
QUICKLY.
THE TRIGGERING EVENT NOW WILL BE
THE GROUND INVASION.
UNTIL THEN, THERE WILL BE ALL
THE DIPLOMACY GOING AROUND IT,
THERE WILL BE MORE DEPENDING ON
HOW LONG THE SORT OF --
DEPENDINGING ON HOW MUCH TIME
ISRAEL TAKES TO LAUNCH THE
GROUND OFFENSIVE.
I IMAGINE THERE WILL BE MORE
GATHERINGS OF REGIONAL LEADERS.
S
SECRETARY BLINKEN WILL BE ON THE
ROAD ALL THE TIME TO TRY TO HERD
ALL THE CATS TOGETHER.
THERE WILL BE A LOT OF
NEGOTIATIONS BEHIND THE SCENES
FOR THOSE HOSTAGES AND THERE
WILL BE A LOT OF CONVERSATIONS
BETWEEN THE WHITE HOUSE AND
NETANYAHU.
>> WHEN YOU SAY TRIGGERING, WHAT
DOES THAT MEAN?
WHAT DOES IT TRIGGER?
THAT IS OBVIOUSLY THE BIG
CONCERN WHEN YOU TALK TO U.S.
OFFICIALS.
>> CALCULATION AS TO WHEN THE
GROUND OFFENSIVE BEGINS WILL BE
MADE BY THE ISRAELIS AND THEY
WILL CONSIDER ALL KINDS OF
FACTORS INCLUDING THE PRESSURE
FROM THE UNITED STATES.
BUT AS DAN POINTED OUT, THEY
NEED TO MOVE IN BEFORE TOO LONG.
THERE IS A TIME LIMIT ON HOW
MUCH THEY CAN WAIT.
THERE IS MOMENTUM.
WE KEEP THINKING OF THE PRESSURE
THAT IS BEING PUT ON NETANYAHU
FROM THE OUTSIDE.
WE'RE NOT PAYING ENOUGH
ATTENTION TO THE PRESSURE FROM
WITHIN, FROM ISRAELIS.
AND YOUR CORRESPONDENTS ON THE
GROUND WILL KNOW THIS BETTER --
ERIN AND NIC, THAT ISRAELIS WANT
TO SEE SOMETHING DONE.
WE'RE NOW TWO WEEKS AWAY FROM
THE HORRIFIC EVENTS THAT BEGAN
THIS CHAIN OF OFFENSES.
AND THOSE EVENTS ARE STILL FRESH
IN THE MINDS OF ISRAELIS.
THEY STILL WANT A RECKONING FOR
WHAT HAPPENED ON THE 7th OF
OCTOBER.
THEY STILL WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
THERE IS A LOT OF PRESSURE ON
NETANYAHU TO FOLLOW THROUGH ON
HIS PROMISES, TO GO IN AND
FINISH HAMAS ONCE AND FOR ALL.
WE CAN DISCUSS AROUND THIS TABLE
WHETHER THAT IS EVEN POSSIBLE,
BUT WE MUST NOT DISCOUNT THE
STRENGTH OF FEELING IN ISRAEL
AND THE IMPACT THAT FEELING HAS
ON NETANYAHU'S DISPOSITION
TOWARDS GAZA.
>> THE POINT EARLIER ABOUT WHAT
LEADERS SAY IN PUBLIC AND WHAT
THEY SAY BEHIND CLOSED DOOR,
II
THINK IT IS INTERESTING THAT CNN
IS REPORTING THAT THE U.S.
ADMINISTRATION WANTS THEM TO
DELAY THAT INVASION.
BUT NOT SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
HEARD PUBLICLY FROM THE
PRESIDENT EXCEPT FOR WHAT HIS
TEAM SAYS WAS A MISUNDERSTANDING
OF HIM SAYING YES TO A QUESTION
OVER THE WEEKEND.
DO YOU THINK THERE COMES A POINT
WHEN THAT IS SOMETHING THAT THE
PRESIDENT SAYS OUT LOUD?
>> NO.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S APPROACH
SO FAR HAS BEEN TO GIVE THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT AND THE
ISRAELI PEOPLE A BIG BEAR HUG IN
PUBLIC, SAY I HAVE YOUR BACK.
WHAT HE DID WAS DRAMATIC BY
SHOWING UP AND MEETING WITH THE
CAR CABINETS.
BUT FORWARD LEANING AND SORT OF
ATTACHED AT THE HIP MESSAGE
PUBLICLY.
AND PRIVATELY CONVEYING HIS
MESSAGES.
I DO NOT BELIEVE --
>> EVER?
>> I CAN'T SAY EVER.
BUT NEAR TERM I DON'T THINK THAT
HE WILL PRESSURIZE REALLY
BECAUSE THE DETERRENT EFFECT TH
THAT WOULD WIPE OUT AND THE
MESSAGE IT WOULD SEND TO
HEZBOLLAH AND IRAN WOULD BE
DISASTROUS.
>> THANKS, GUYS.
APPRECIATE IT.